README.md, before:

# Food Waste Reduction API

This is a RESTful API that provides information on reducing food waste. The API is built with React, Vite, TypeScript, and SCSS on the front-end and Express on the back-end. The database used for this project is yet to be decided between MongoDB or MariaDB.

## Getting started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (version 14 or higher)
- NPM (version 7 or higher)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository using git clone https://github.com/your-username/food-waste-reduction-api.git.
2. Install dependencies by running npm install in the project root directory.

### Usage

1. Start the development server by running npm run dev in the project root directory.
2. Access the API at http://localhost:5174/.

## Features

This API has the following features:

- Authentication and authorization of users.
- Fetching of recipes.
- Suggestions for using up leftover ingredients.
- Tracking of food waste reduction statistics.

## API endpoints

This API has the following endpoints\*:

- GET /api/composting: Gets information on composting, including types of food scraps that can be composted, composting techniques, composting facilities, composting guidelines, etc.
- GET /api/donation: Gets information on food donation, including organizations that accept food donations, guidelines for donating food, information on tax benefits for food donations, etc.
- GET /api/reduction: Gets information on food waste reduction strategies and statistics for restaurants and households, such as meal planning, portion control, and creative recipes for using leftovers.
- GET /api/impact: Gets data on the environmental impact of food waste, such as carbon emissions, landfill use, and water consumption.
- GET /api/policy: Gets information on government policies and regulations related to food waste reduction, such as food waste reduction targets and initiatives, and legal requirements for businesses and households.
- GET /api/best-practices: Gets examples of successful food waste reduction programs, case studies of businesses and organizations that have reduced food waste, and tips and best practices for individuals and households.
- GET /api/resources: Gets tools and resources to help individuals, businesses, and organizations reduce food waste, such as food tracking apps, meal planning tools, and waste reduction guides.

\*These endpoints are examples of how they might look. This will be updated as the projects evolves.

## Contributing

If you would like to contribute to this project, please send me an email with your thoughts.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

## Contact

If you have any questions or concerns, please contact ludvig.flyckt@gmail.com or https://github.com/Ludvigpbf/.

Commit message:

init server, example schema & crud

README.md, after:

# Food Waste Reduction API

This is a RESTful API that provides information on reducing food waste. The API is built with React, Vite, TypeScript, and SCSS on the front-end and Express on the back-end. The database used for this project is MongoDB.

## Getting started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (version 14 or higher)
- NPM (version 7 or higher)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository using git clone https://github.com/your-username/food-waste-reduction-api.git.
2. Run these commands:
   - npm init -y
   - npm install
   - npm install express cors mongoose
3. Install dependencies by running npm install in the project root directory.

### Usage

1. Start the development server by running npm run dev in the project root directory.
2. Access the API at http://localhost:5174/.

## Features

This API has the following features:

- Authentication and authorization of users.
- Fetching of recipes.
- Suggestions for using up leftover ingredients.
- Tracking of food waste reduction statistics.

## API endpoints

This API has the following endpoints\*:

- GET /api/composting: Gets information on composting, including types of food scraps that can be composted, composting techniques, composting facilities, composting guidelines, etc.
- GET /api/donation: Gets information on food donation, including organizations that accept food donations, guidelines for donating food, information on tax benefits for food donations, etc.
- GET /api/reduction: Gets information on food waste reduction strategies and statistics for restaurants and households, such as meal planning, portion control, and creative recipes for using leftovers.
- GET /api/impact: Gets data on the environmental impact of food waste, such as carbon emissions, landfill use, and water consumption.
- GET /api/policy: Gets information on government policies and regulations related to food waste reduction, such as food waste reduction targets and initiatives, and legal requirements for businesses and households.
- GET /api/best-practices: Gets examples of successful food waste reduction programs, case studies of businesses and organizations that have reduced food waste, and tips and best practices for individuals and households.
- GET /api/resources: Gets tools and resources to help individuals, businesses, and organizations reduce food waste, such as food tracking apps, meal planning tools, and waste reduction guides.

\*These endpoints are examples of how they might look. This will be updated as the projects evolves.

## Contributing

If you would like to contribute to this project, please send me an email with your thoughts.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

## Contact

If you have any questions or concerns, please contact ludvig.flyckt@gmail.com or https://github.com/Ludvigpbf/.

npm init -y

npm install
